---
layout: post
title: Git Life
date: 2017-03-31 13:40:00 -0700
tags:
- git
- svn
- subversion
- source control
---
For the past 2 days, I've been using [Git](git-scm.com) exclusively from the command line, and I've learned an awful lot! The funny thing is that I'm only using it from the command line because I don't have admin access to install new software (namely [SourceTree](https://sourcetreeapp.com) for visual Git management) on my work computer.

The main reason I've been using Git at all is that my company has been using [SVN](https://subversion.apache.org/) for its source control management since about 2010. While SVN is perfectly fine, Git is the new industry standard and also just happens to be what I know best. Not that I knew it very _well_, but I certainly knew it better than SVN. Here's an article with a misleading title that helped me finally understand the differences between the two: [Switching from Subversion to Git](https://www.git-tower.com/learn/git/ebook/en/desktop-gui/appendix/from-subversion-to-git). I've talked with my coworker about switching to Git, and he seemed eager to try it out. So during a slow spell for me yesterday, I figured I'd look into converting our giant SVN repository to Git.

After searching a bit, I happened upon this article: [Convert Subversion to Git](https://john.albin.net/git/convert-subversion-to-git), and BOY was it helpful! Everything went as the article said (minus a couple of slight changes since I'm on a Windows machine), and after about an hour and a half, I had a completely functional Git repository with all the history of the SVN repository! I still need to teach everyone involved with the code how to use Git, but that's a small hurdle to overcome after all this work!

After the conversion finished, I was encouraged to start converting other projects that I've been working on to Git (actually, the big project I've been working on for a while has already been using Git, I just wanted to start converting more). That's when I learned about Git [submodules](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules), and my workflow was revolutionized! Now I can make references to other projects and get everything connected as efficiently as possible! It was very exciting for me.

I also learned more about the basics of using Git from the command line, and I can now crawl my projects using the command line and Git like something better than a complete newbie! My favorite thing that I learned is the difference between `git log` and `git show`:

> `git log` will show a log of all the commit messages that were made in a scrollable format, while `git show` shows the diff of the most recent commit so you can see what was changed! You can use both commands in conjunction with each other by using `git log` to find a particular commit id and `git log <commit>` to show the diff for that commit!

Very useful, especially since I thought the only way to view changes was with a Git UI like SourceTree. Granted, I'll still use SourceTree when I can, but now I feel confident that I can use Git effectively on a machine without it installed.

After all this work and learning, I now have a new Repository folder where all the Git repos live, and we can start working like modern programmers here at work! Hooray!
